Okay.
So after all of these hours spent together learning Vue, I'm pretty sure you know me quite well.
And you know that I generally prefer Macs.
I prefer to use smaller, more lightweight objects that allow us to replace the original implementations
so that we can test our own code, our own components in isolation.
So my goal in this lesson will be to refactor the tests in our main test suite so that we're never actually
relying on a real view X store.
Now, why is this possible?
How can we do this?
Well, because if you look at our component, these are fundamentally the two lines right here where
we are relying on the View X Store.
And if you think about it, we don't need a real View X Store to test this logic and how it interacts
with our component.
Imagine that a view store has 100 methods and 100 properties.
It probably doesn't in the real world, but imagine that it does for the sake of the main nav component
and for it to be able to run.
All it needs is to have a store property which is going to be an object with a state property which
is going to be an object with an is logged in property.
That's all it needs in order to test that.
The VRF that relies on this is logged and computed property works.
This just needs to be some kind of boolean.
But this object and this complex nested relationship doesn't literally need to be a view object and
its internals.
Similarly, we don't need a view object with a commit method.
In order to test this, we just need any object with a commit method that we're going to be able to
access via the dollar store dollar sign store property on our component.
So once we realize that we can use to much simpler object for the respective tests here, we realize
that this component in the test world doesn't need to know anything about view existing.
It doesn't, right?
In the real world we will feed in a real book store and that's what will represent this property.
And these properties will still hold and this method will still exist.
But in the test, we're going to have a similar parallel universe where we're going to have similar
objects that can play the role of a view store without actually using the real implementation.
Right?
And thus our tests will be faster, they'll be lightweight, and they'll be isolated from view.
And we can be sure that if something is breaking, it's breaking because of our code and not because
of a foreign dependency.
So let's refactor our test suite to use a mock store.
So right here I'm going to remove my former code that registered to plug in.
We're not using a real world plug in like The View Store.
And now what I'm going to do is bring it back that familiar MOX property.
That's how we set up a mock.
And on my component, what do I want to mock out?
I want to replace any reference to the store global property that's going to be available on the this
keyword.
So this thing right here.
So what I'd like to do is be able to feed in that store as my argument to the create config factory
function.
So I'm just going to change this parameter name to Dollar Sign Store and that's going to allow me to
use the E6 syntax right here.
So basically I'm going to feed in my create config factory function, whatever store I want that component
in that mounted test to have.
Okay.
So for example, if I scroll down in this test, all I really need for this test, which is just displaying
the company name is some kind of basic object, so I can simply provide an empty object.
Let's save this and see if our test suite still runs and we can see it's not going to be enough.
When you scroll up a little bit here and we're going to see cannot read property is logged in of undefined
which tells me that this part is correctly registering.
And then what Vue is trying to do is read state and it's getting undefined because state does not exist
on this object and thus it cannot read is logged in off that.
So because every computed property in every mounted component needs an object with a state property
and in is logged in property, we can set up that logic right here.
Technically, all we really need is state, but let's be property here.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to add a state property.
I'm going to set it to be a an object and I'm just going to provide an is logged in property set to
let's say false.
It really doesn't matter for this test.
And you can see with that we have completely removed the view store.
In fact, to make this a little bit better.
Let's change this to Dollar Sign Store and let's pass in Dollar Signs Store here as well.
Same exact implementation.
So we're going to feed in this mock store to our create config factory function right here.
It's going to use it right here, which means whenever our component references this dot dollar same
store, it's going to reference this thing right here.
And we have an object with the exact properties we need in order to test what this component cares about.
All right.
So with that, we can proceed through the rest of our tests and do the exact same logic.
In fact, I'm going to copy this store because I imagine we're going to need to use it a couple of times
later on.
So let me scroll down right here.
We need an empty store as well.
So I'm just going to paste that and make sure we provide a dollar sign store here as well.
Scroll down here, an empty store here as well.
So I'm going to use that barebones one that I set up above.
Make sure you dollar sign story here.
There's one thing I'd like to fix here, by the way, before we continue.
I actually realized in the previous lesson because I noticed the exact same categorical header right
here.
We actually have the same described block twice in our file of when users logged out right here and
when users logged out right here.
So I'm just going to cut and paste this test to the upper level describe.
So I'm going to paste a right here because we already have that category above and then down below.
I'm going to remove that former described block.
Our test output is still going to be the exact same right here.
So going back to our original refactor, I'm going to copy this store when the user's logged out.
We know the state is logged in.
Should be false.
Although for the purposes of this test, we really don't care.
Now, notice here what I'm going to do.
As I'm going to provide my story.
And later on on my store, we write my my commit method.
We can actually do this directly in our initialization of the object right here.
So I'm going to move this commit up right here.
And then right here, I'm going to provide that commit method in line.
Let me remove this line and pass in dollar sign store and then we can talk about what we did here.
So here I'm once again creating a mock view store or in other words, a JavaScript object.
I will pretend to be the store in my test and I need a state property with an is lodged in property
to satisfy this logic right here.
And then I need a commit method in order to, to be able to invoke the log in user method and have it
run this logic.
And so I'm just going to set that up in the initial mock store that I provide into my create config.
Same exact approach except now our whole object is a is a JavaScript object.
Previously we had a real view store and we just mocked out its commit method.
Now we just have a complete mock object in its form.
Replace all right to scroll down.
Let me in fact copy this object from above.
Scroll down.
When user is logged in, we no longer need this complex create store function.
We can just have a regular store.
But keep in mind, in order for this to work we need is logged in set to true because that's what we
need this property to evaluate to in order for the VRF directive to have true to render the user profile
picture.
So we need to make sure that that is set to true.
But we still don't need to use a real store, just an object that is good enough to be like the store.
Same thing below here we only want to display the navigation menu when the user's logged in, which
is reflected by the is logged in property on our store state being such a true this logic right here.
And then I'm going to feed in the store right here.
Dollar Sign Store.
Do that.
And there we go.
Our test is still passing.
Everything's still good.
Everything's running pretty quickly.
We're running something like six tests in less than half a second, and we're not relying on view at
all at this point.
So I can actually scroll up all the way to the top.
We're no longer using Create Store.
That's what V code is telling me right here declared.
But its values never read.
Perfect.
So we can remove that former import saved that file and now we have everything working perfectly.
In fact, if you wanted to, you could consider moving this to its own separate factory function to
keep a lot of that logic in place.
You can then for example pass in a simple is logged in boolean to customize how that object is constructed.
It's really up to you.
But the key takeaway here is that we have replaced the big dependency view X with smaller mock store
objects that play the role of the View X store, the exact same testing principles that we've talked
about throughout the entire course.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.